---
layout: post
title:  "The cat, the lolcat, and the pipe"
date:   2014-02-11 18:15:20
---

# cat

Let's talk about `cat`.  It's this nice little Unix program for those of use that are inpatient,i.e., all of us.

Here's a scenario for you.  You're in your terminal and you want to know what's in that gem file.

```
>ls
CNAME        Gemfile.lock _layouts     _site        index.html
Gemfile      _config.yml  _posts       css
```

And you're like, "I'll just open this up in Sublime!" (Or MacVim, or ~~Word~~)

But fuck that shit!  You're in the terminal! And having to wait while a new Sublime window opens is time you don't have. Besides, you're not interested in editing the file, you're just trying to see what's in it.

So, `cat` that bitch!

```
>cat Gemfile
source 'https://rubygems.org'
gem 'github-pages'
```

Boom!  You've just saved milliseconds of time!  Pretty awesome, right!

Tots.  But we can do better.  We can do `lolcat`.

# lolcat

[lolcat](https://github.com/busyloop/lolcat) is this great gem that takes the `cat` command and dips it into a god damn rainbow.

How do you get the rainbow?

```
gem install lolcat
```

Now, run `lolcat Gemfile`, but put on some sunglasses first.

But having to type `lolcat` is twice as long as typing `cat`.  

Let's do something about that.

Pull up your editor of choice and open `~/.zshrc` and add this line. `alias cat="lolcat"`  Now when ever you type `cat` your computer will know you really mean, `lolcat`.

# Rainbow Everything!

Remember that `gem install lolcat` command?  Well `gem`, the command, is a program that downloads and instals Ruby gems, packaged Ruby programs.  It's good to update your gems every once in a while be running `gem update`.  But that output boring monochromatic text!

Not any more it doesn't!

`gem update | cat` will take the output of `gem update` and pipe it into `cat`.

The best part is that you can pipe the text output of literally any terminal command just by appending with `| cat`.  

Your welcome.  Keep reaching for that rainbow friends.
